Update Hog intro (#10388)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/hog/index.mdx

  enterprise: full
---

> PostHog wants you to have the power to transform and export your data in real time, without the headache of maintaining your own service to get it done.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We want you to have the power to transform and export your data in real time, without the headache of maintaining your own service to get it done.
```

Enter Hog: the language that drives our [realtime destinations](/docs/cdp/destinations).

We’ve written Hog destination templates for dozens of services. But you can also write destinations yourself. Here’s how it works.

> **Note:** Hog shouldn't be confused with [HogQL](/docs/hogql), our SQL-like query language used inside PostHog. If you're looking to query data in PostHog, see those docs.

## Hog by example: webhook

When creating a destination, you’ll start with an input interface sheet. This enables easy changes and maintenance to your destination. 

You can include additional inputs while editing the destination:

- Click **Edit source code**
- Click **Add input variable**

While editing your destination, each input's property name is noted beside its title.

Let's walk through the default [webhook template](/docs/cdp/destinations/webhook). It's a great starting point for your own destinations.

```hog

let payload := {

> // This is the object we'll use to specify our HTTP request

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// This is the object we use to specify our HTTP request
```

  'headers': inputs.headers,
  'body': inputs.body,
  'method': inputs.method
}

if (inputs.debug) {
// If we're running in debug mode, we'll take an extra step:
// Printing the request's URL and payload object
  print('Request', inputs.url, payload)
}

// Create and fire a request with the specified URL and payload object
let res := fetch(inputs.url, payload);

> // When the request returns, execution will continue
> // The response will be stored to the above constant, `res`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// When the request returns, execution continues
// The response is stored to the above constant, `res`
```

Author: RUNTIME METAPHYSICS

// You can write code that handles the response from here

if (inputs.debug) {
// If we're in debug mode, print the status code and body for the response
  print('Response', res.status, res.body);
}
```

It’s okay if your destination service is a little pickier, though. Let’s say the endpoint you’re targeting expects to receive a body with a specific structure. You could wrap the `inputs.body` JSON content in another object, then pass this along to the payload:

```hog

let wrapped_input := {

> 	'some_necessary_property': 'its necessary value',
> 	'content': inputs.body

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  'some_necessary_property': 'its necessary value',
  'content': inputs.body
```

}

let payload := {
  'headers': inputs.headers,
  'body': wrapped_input,
  'method': inputs.method
}
```

You could even add a new input field to your destination, which is convenient if you think you’ll want to change the value again in the future, or reuse this destination for multiple targets.

![Input UI sheet screenshot](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/custom_destination_input_f74eb7947d.png)

Imagine a destination endpoint that can update one of many tables, and therefore requires a table name to be specified. With a string input named `table`, you could write this:

```hog

let table_patch := {

> 	'table': inputs.table,
> 	'content': inputs.body

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  'table': inputs.table,
  'content': inputs.body
```
